>> Erik Reinert: So this is an example
of a serverless architecture.
Now, what we have discussed already,
right, is monolith,
you can sign to see how we
started with a monolith.
Then you can see how we moved
to a serverless architecture.
Well, now we're getting even
more granular with serverless.
However, we also made some other changes
to the infrastructure as well, or
the architecture as well.
First off,
what did we change about the frontend?
>> Speaker 2: Static.
>> Erik Reinert: Static, exactly.
So we decided, hey,
I wanna have a serverless frontend and
let that just be hosted
in an S3 bucket and
let Amazon scale all those requests for
me, what does that mean?
I just eliminated potentially hundreds
of processes running in the cloud 24/7,
taking compute resources,
and now it's per request.
That alone,
just by getting your services or
your frontends out of a running
daemon could save you a ton of money.
This is why I like to build
SPAs out of the gate.
Again, going back to Quirk, a lot of the
reason why Quirk is being built the way
it is, is because of cost savings and
maintenance and manageability, right?
Quirk, I did a lot of research on what I
wanted to do to build the frontend for
Quirk.
Next.js has been popping,
everybody's been freaking out over it.
There's a bunch of other really
cool stuff out there too, right?
But how do I solve and
find the best solution that works for me?
Well, first off, I don't wanna have to
think about my frontends going down at 2
o'clock in the morning, [LAUGH] right?
That's my number one.
Hands down, I don't wanna wake up and
know that my users trying to
access their dashboard can't
because the process failed or I pushed a
bad commit or something like that, right?
Going the serverless approach,
I can render the whole file or
render the whole UI,
drop it on a bucket and that's it.
Even the deployment process is easy,
right?
It's just an RF sync basically
to a bucket, and we're done.
You might have to do some cache
invalidation and whatnot.
But it's so much easier from a development
standpoint than having to push code,
wait for it to go to dev, wait for
it to go to staging, wait for
it to go to prod, that probably has like
10 to 15 minutes of interval in between.
Cuz you gotta wait for For the containers
to restart and everything else, right?
This is literally sync and go, right?
So the developer experience as a single
person trying to build a large
architecture, frontends being
serverless is really powerful.
By the way, spoilers,
who here knows what may be related to this
workshop might also be serverless
that a specific company does?
>> Erik Reinert: Frontend Masters
is completely serverless.
So their whole website is
basically on an S3 bucket.
And that is why it is incredibly fast,
it is incredibly easy to maintain and
they can iterate off of it very quickly,
is because they decided to make it
a file serverless frontend, right?
And so, this makes it so that they
don't have to worry about if their
website's down, they just make sure
that the S3 buckets basically,
publicly accessible, and
they do deployments directly to S3.
So even the platform you guys are on
right now, if you're at least on
the frontend master side, that is
a serverless frontend that's being served.
The next thing you're gonna notice is,
what happened to the backend service?
>> Speaker 2: It's not a service anymore,
it's a gateway.
>> Erik Reinert: Exactly, yeah, it's
not a service anymore, it's a gateway.
So it's common within serverless
architecture to couple
all of your endpoints into what's
called an API gateway, right?
Realistically, if you're talking
about functions as a service,
you can't really call them directly from
a website, there's no easy way to do that.
And it's mostly because functions by
default are just executed or invoked
within the Amazon or Google, whatever
cloud provider's internal networking.
However, if we wanted to,
we could figure out a way of hooking
them up to what's called an API Gateway
that is also serverless.
Now, is it actually serverless?
No, but you don't worry about that.
Basically, what the API Gateway acts as,
is a cloud-based
feature which allows you to
expose HTTP endpoint that Amazon,
Google, whoever else may maintain for you.
But then you can connect serverless
functions to those gateways so
that they only fire whenever
you hit that endpoint, right?
And so, this is what makes it so now you
don't need to run a service anymore.
And on top of it, your functions,
or the different functionality of
your application, now scale literally,
individually by components.
This is how Quark is built.
Quark V2 is built this way because we
wanted to go serverless entirely, right?
That was our first goal, was to try
to save as much money as we can.
What that does mean as well, though,
is that Quirk V2 has 50 Lambdas, right?
Because there's a lot
of things that we do.
But each one of those endpoints
are being used for specific use cases,
right, and they each scale on their own.
Which means that if we had
a huge influx of user signups,
we don't have to worry about it.
That function will take care of it,
it'll scale automatically.
And it's out of the box managed by itself.
Same thing for other processes that
happen, and as you can see here,
it's the same thing for
AddToCart or ProcessOrder, right?
What we do first, this is we have
a function that does add to cart,
that can scale indefinitely.
Who here has tried adding something
to their cart and then it just hung?
Because I have.
And it's annoying.
This is one of the reasons why Amazon
moved to such a distributed nature.
It's because again, when you have problems
like that that you need to solve,
it's not really about technically,
it's also about the user experience.
If users are having bad experience,
you need to fix that.
Serverless can really do that.
Same thing with ProcessOrder, right?
You might be in a scenario where
processing orders takes a long
time because there's tons of
orders being waited to process and
you're next in line, basically.
That used to be a pattern that
existed like ten years ago,
where you'd have to wait for other
orders to process before yours could.
Now, because it's separated into its
own function, it can easily scale,
and the idea here is
that your ProcessOrder
does not share the resources of
anybody else's ProcessOrder, right?
So there's no need for a service,
there's no need for scaling that,
It's literally, if you had 5,000
ProcessOrder functions that day,
you ran ProcessOrder 5,000 times.
It's literally one to one.
One other thing I wanted to note
here was the database part as well.
What happened to the database?
>> Speaker 2: It's shared now.
>> Erik Reinert: It's shared, but
there's something else about it.
>> Speaker 2: That it's serverless.
>> Erik Reinert: It's also serverless.
Yeah, so there are technologies out there,
and again, if you're watching
Milk's course, the go build Go services
on AWS, he talks about DynamoDB, right?
These serverless-based solutions for
even databases.
So what you're looking at here
is a completely resource-based
cost allocation for your architecture,
meaning you're only spending what
you need on this architecture.
You're only spending what you need for
your front-end requests and
the data that's saved on S3,
you're only spending what you need for
the request making to the API Gateway and
those Lambdas.
And you're only spending
money on the database and
the request being made to it as
well as the data stored in it.
You're not paying for
uptime of 24 hours a day.
You're not paying for CPU at a certain
scale or anything like that,
because DynamoDB and
these other kinda serverless databases can
scale on their own and know how to, right?
There's advantages and disadvantages
to this type of architecture.
However, again, one of the biggest ones
is scalability and cost effectiveness.
Any questions about serverless and
these changes?
>> Speaker 2: I guess
the way that you see it as,
anything that is provided as a service
fits into the serverless category.
>> Erik Reinert: Absolutely,
yeah, it really is.
And again, that's what's kind
of made it a little confusing,
is because when you think of serverless,
you think of functions.
But you really should
broaden your horizon and
just think of anything that you aren't
managing yourself is serverless, really.
Again, it can be Firebase,
it can be Superbase, it can be anything.
As long as you're not dealing with
the deployment lifecycle or the management
lifecycle of that thing, it's really just
about pushing your code and running it.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: For the platform you're
developing, what's the local development
story look like compared
to deploying on AWS?
Like AddToCart,
how do you iterate on that function?
>> Erik Reinert: Right, so
we're gonna talk about this in a second,
but it's not the same, [LAUGH] basically.
There is one massive caveat to this, which
we'll talk about in a second with cons,
and that is that you have to be on
the internet to do all of this, right?
You can't be in an airport on a laptop,
running a service locally and being like,
okay, I'm gonna run functions.
You can, but it's so much harder.
So it does require you to be
on the internet, basically.
And the easiest way to approach this is
really to create dev environments that
are also serverless, right?
That you can synchronize to
push your code to and test in.
And that's what we do.
We have a dev environment.
Again, it's only two developers right now,
so we don't have to worry about it, but
we basically have a dev environment and
then one of us is like, hey,
I'm taking over the dev environment.
Okay, cool, do your thing.
And then they're working with systems and
things like that.
Now, what's nice about
this with serverless and
functions specifically, is my cohort,
Hayden, can work on the AddToCart
functionality while I'm working on
the ProcessOrder functionality.
So there's still a separation there,
even though it's in the cloud,
where we can work separately, and
then not really worry about stepping
on each other's toes, right?
However, if you wanted that logical
separation across the entire environment,
then you'd probably have
an m per developer, right?
Or something like that.
So that you'd have all the functions,
the API Gateway, and everything else.
But the benefit of this, which is really
nice, is that it's serverless, so
you don't have to worry about having five
dev environments that are also running
processes all the time.
And paying for
those computers costs and everything,
it's really just the same
thing of consumption.
And so that's what we'll end up doing,
once we get to a point where we're like,
okay, we wanna have a dev environment
per developer or something like that,
we will just create the infrastructure for
that.
And then, he can have his dev
environment and I can have mine.
But yeah, the biggest caveat to this is,
again, we'll talk about it in a second,
is you need to be on the internet for it.
Yeah, it's all cloud-based.
Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Kind of maybe a bit
specific, but comparing to the diagram we
first started with in the service,
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: What's
the potential cost difference?
>> Erik Reinert: Massive, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Because I just had 500 for
the first.
>> Erik Reinert: So,
if we're talking about the monolith,
at least,
not my original Cork V1 design, so
if we're talking about Cork V1 versus V2,
V1 costs around 350 to $500 a month for
us to run.
V1 costs around 50 to $75.
Yeah, so massive cost, to the point where
I opened up the Cost Explorer on Amazon on
stream one day and I was like, tell me
where you think we did serverless, and
everybody could see the difference.
It was huge.
So yeah, it was a massive drop, right?
But what did we have to take on?
Cold starts,
other challenges with the system, right?
Distribution and things like that, right?
But at the end of the day,
those were trade-offs that we
decided would be more valuable.